# Blockchain: Understanding Its Uses and Implications



## Introduaction to Blockchain



### Introduction to Blockchain and The Early Internet

Blockchain is a peer-to-peer ledger system that allows peers to transact directly with each other eliminating the need for a central authority. 



At its core, blockchain is a system for recording information about a transaction in a new decentralized way that makes it difficult or impossible to alter. These transactions are stored on sheets or blocks in a digital ledger that is shared among the participants of the network. Consensus on the transactions brings the peer-to-peer network into an agreement. Once agreed upon, these transactions are grouped in blocks, and blocks of transactions are recorded in the immutable ledger.



The Internet can be grouped into three distinct segments characterized by how people interact with this new technology.

- Web 1.0 - Internet of Connection
  - Development of a host of web-based applications, which fostered online services, such as email.
  - Managed by a Central Authority.
  - Read-only, information was “pushed” to users.
- Web 2.0 - Internet of Information
  - User-generated content.
  - Read-write, individuals can interact with information.
  - 
- Web 3.0 - Internet of Value
  - Community interaction
  - More connected, open, and intelligent
  - Identity and information will be held by the individual, breaking data silos.
  - Blockchain will exchange value in the form of tokens (fungible and non-fungible)

The "Internet of Value" represents a world where value is exchanged at the speed at which information moves today. 



### Blockchain Basics



A block on a blockchain can be thought of much like a page in a notebook. Data is stored on a block. the digital ledger doesn't care what kind of information you're putting on it. So, while most of what we're recording today are financial transactions, we could also record things like voting records and results, land titling and medical records, etc. What makes this blockchain notebook incredibly powerful is that all the pages are linked together. So that if you go back and try and change any data on any page anywhere in this notebook, you break a link in a very obvious and easy-to-determine way.



A block on a blockchain can be thought of much like a page in a notebook. Data is stored on a block. This provides immutability and security.



Blockchain is a combination of several other underlying technologies that have never been combined so successfully. Here are some features that make this new technology so revolutionary.



- Distributed Ledger
  - A ledger is a collection of transactions
  - no one owns the ledger. The ledger is distributed among participants in the network, all running the same blockchain protocols
  - It is decentralized in that an identical copy of the ledger exists on every node/computer on the network
- Peer To Peer
  - The ledger is stored, updated, and maintained by a peer network
  - They store, spread and preserve the blockchain data, so a blockchain exists on nodes
  - ll nodes on a network follow the same rules of operation or protocols, but nodes have different roles. 
    - A full node contains a copy of the blockchain protocol, transaction history of the blockchain and aids in the maintenance of the blockchain. 
    - User node interacts with the ledger.
  - With blockchain technology, a lack of a centralized authority is replaced with a peer-to-peer network.
- Transparency
  - we can see all the transactions that have occurred on the shared or distributed ledger
  - Since every node shares a copy of the agreed-upon ledger, there is no friction about the transactions, everyone has the same agreed-upon copy.
  - Centralized systems are not transparent, the information about the ledger is controlled by one authority.
- Consensus
  - Blockchain ledgers are different from centralized ledgers because network participants have an agreement upon what is in the identical ledger. 
  - In order for the blocks to be added, all the nodes in the system come to agree as to what transactions are accurate and should be added to the chain of blocks. 
  - Since there is no central authority telling the nodes which transactions are valid, a new way to reach agreement or come to *consensus* is needed.
- Encryption
  - assure the information on the blockchain is authentic
  - Cryptography and blockchain offer a secure way to prove something is authentic. Instead of relying on third-party, trust is put into cryptographic algorithms that prove the provenance and authenticity of an attestation.
- Immutability
  - Cryptography also plays a part in another powerful feature of blockchain technology, immutability. 
  - What makes blockchain incredibly powerful is that all the blocks are linked together. 
  - With the use of a cryptographic technique called hashing, the linked information is forged so that if you go back and try to change any data on any block anywhere in the shared ledger, the link with the other copies is broken in a very obvious and easy-to-determine way
- Programable
  - Some blockchains offer an additional feature, *smart contracts*, that impose logic into the system
  - you can think of these blockchains as computers
  - The first of these blockchains is Ethereum
  - Ethereum runs the EVM, Ethereum Virtual Machine, which has the ability to impose digital agreements or smart contracts. A smart contract is a program that runs on a blockchain that can impose contractual agreements. Typically, they work as digital agreements that enforce a specific set of rules. These rules are predefined by computer code, which is replicated and executed by all network nodes. Blockchain smart contracts allow for the creation of trustless protocols. This means that two parties can make commitments via blockchain, without having to know or trust each other. They can be sure that if the conditions aren't fulfilled, the contract won't be executed. Other than that, the use of smart contracts can remove the need for intermediaries, reducing operational costs significantly.





















